<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## HullConnector

### Parameters

-   `dependencies` **[Object][1]** 
-   `options` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `options.hostSecret` **[string][2]?** secret to sign req.hull.token
    -   `options.port` **([Number][3] \| [string][2])?** port on which expressjs application should be started
    -   `options.clientConfig` **[Object][1]?** additional `HullClient` configuration (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `options.instrumentation` **[Object][1]?** override default InstrumentationAgent
    -   `options.cache` **[Object][1]?** override default CacheAgent
    -   `options.queue` **[Object][1]?** override default QueueAgent
    -   `options.connectorName` **[string][2]?** force connector name - if not provided will be taken from manifest.json
    -   `options.skipSignatureValidation` **[boolean][4]?** skip signature validation on notifications (for testing only)
    -   `options.timeout` **([number][3] \| [string][2])?** global HTTP server timeout - format is parsed by `ms` npm package
    -   `options.captureMetrics` **[Array][5]?** an array to capture metrics
    -   `options.captureLogs` **[Array][5]?** an array to capture logs
    -   `options.disableOnExit` **[boolean][4]** an optional param to disable exit listeners (optional, default `false`)
    -   `options.notificationValidatorHttpClient`  

### setupApp

This method applies all features of `Hull.Connector` to the provided application:

-   serving `/manifest.json`, `/readme` and `/` endpoints
-   serving static assets from `/dist` and `/assets` directiories
-   rendering `/views/*.html` files with `ejs` renderer
-   timeouting all requests after 25 seconds
-   adding Newrelic and Sentry instrumentation
-   initiating the wole [Context Object][6]
-   handling the `hullToken` parameter in a default way

#### Parameters

-   `app` **express** expressjs application

Returns **express** expressjs application

### startApp

This is a supplement method which calls `app.listen` internally and also terminates instrumentation of the application calls.
If any error is not caught on handler level it will first go through instrumentation handler reporting it to sentry
and then a `500 Unhandled Error` response will be send back to the client.
The response can be provided by the handler before passing it here.

#### Parameters

-   `app` **express** expressjs application

Returns **http.Server** 

## Context

An object that's available in all action handlers and routers as `req.hull`.
It's a set of parameters and modules to work in the context of current organization and connector instance.

### cache

Cache available as `req.hull.cache` object. This class is being intiated and added to Context Object by QueueAgent.
If you want to customize cache behavior (for example ttl, storage etc.) please @see Infra.QueueAgent

#### wrap

-   **See: [https://github.com/BryanDonovan/node-cache-manager#overview][7]**

Hull client calls which fetch ship settings could be wrapped with this
method to cache the results

##### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][2]** 
-   `cb` **[Function][8]** callback which Promised result would be cached
-   `options` **[Object][1]?** 

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

#### set

Saves ship data to the cache

##### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][2]** 
-   `value` **mixed** 
-   `options` **[Object][1]?** 

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

#### get

Returns cached information

##### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][2]** 

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

#### del

Clears the ship cache. Since Redis stores doesn't return promise
for this method, it passes a callback to get a Promise

##### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][2]** 

Returns **any** Promise

### metric

Metric agent available as `req.hull.metric` object.
This class is being initiated by InstrumentationAgent.
If you want to change or override metrics behavior please @see Infra.InstrumentationAgent

#### Examples

```javascript
req.hull.metric.value("metricName", metricValue = 1);
req.hull.metric.increment("metricName", incrementValue = 1); // increments the metric value
req.hull.metric.event("eventName", { text = "", properties = {} });
```

#### value

Sets metric value for gauge metric

##### Parameters

-   `metric` **[string][2]** metric name
-   `value` **[number][3]** metric value (optional, default `1`)
-   `additionalTags` **[Array][5]** additional tags in form of `["tag_name:tag_value"]` (optional, default `[]`)

Returns **mixed** 

#### increment

Increments value of selected metric

##### Parameters

-   `metric` **[string][2]** metric metric name
-   `value` **[number][3]** value which we should increment metric by (optional, default `1`)
-   `additionalTags` **[Array][5]** additional tags in form of `["tag_name:tag_value"]` (optional, default `[]`)

Returns **mixed** 

#### event

##### Parameters

-   `title` **[string][2]** 
-   `text` **[string][2]?**  (optional, default `""`)
-   `properties` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)

Returns **mixed** 

### enqueue

#### Parameters

-   `queueAdapter` **[Object][1]** adapter to run - when using this function in Context this param is bound
-   `ctx` **[Context][10]** Hull Context Object - when using this function in Context this param is bound
-   `jobName` **[string][2]** name of specific job to execute
-   `jobPayload` **[Object][1]** the payload of the job
-   `options` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `options.ttl` **[number][3]?** job producers can set an expiry value for the time their job can live in active state, so that if workers didn't reply in timely fashion, Kue will fail it with TTL exceeded error message preventing that job from being stuck in active state and spoiling concurrency.
    -   `options.delay` **[number][3]?** delayed jobs may be scheduled to be queued for an arbitrary distance in time by invoking the .delay(ms) method, passing the number of milliseconds relative to now. Alternatively, you can pass a JavaScript Date object with a specific time in the future. This automatically flags the Job as "delayed".
    -   `options.queueName` **[string][2]?** when you start worker with a different queue name, you can explicitly set it here to queue specific jobs to that queue
    -   `options.priority` **([number][3] \| [string][2])?** you can use this param to specify priority of job

#### Examples

```javascript
// app is Hull.Connector wrapped expressjs app
app.get((req, res) => {
  req.hull.enqueue("jobName", { payload: "to-work" })
    .then(() => {
      res.end("ok");
    });
});
```

Returns **[Promise][9]** which is resolved when job is successfully enqueued

**Meta**

-   **deprecated**: internal connector queue is considered an antipattern, this function is kept only for backward compatiblity


## Infra

Production ready connectors need some infrastructure modules to support their operation, allow instrumentation, queueing and caching. The [Hull.Connector][11] comes with default settings, but also allows to initiate them and set a custom configuration:

### Examples

```javascript
const instrumentation = new Instrumentation();
const cache = new Cache();
const queue = new Queue();

const connector = new Hull.Connector({ instrumentation, cache, queue });
```

### CacheAgent

This is a wrapper over [https://github.com/BryanDonovan/node-cache-manager][12]
to manage ship cache storage.
It is responsible for handling cache key for every ship.

By default it comes with the basic in-memory store, but in case of distributed connectors being run in multiple processes for reliable operation a shared cache solution should be used. The `Cache` module internally uses [node-cache-manager][12], so any of it's compatibile store like `redis` or `memcache` could be used:

The `cache` instance also exposes `contextMiddleware` whch adds `req.hull.cache` to store the ship and segments information in the cache to not fetch it for every request. The `req.hull.cache` is automatically picked and used by the `Hull.Middleware` and `segmentsMiddleware`.

> The `req.hull.cache` can be used by the connector developer for any other caching purposes:

```javascript
ctx.cache.get('object_name');
ctx.cache.set('object_name', object_value);
ctx.cache.wrap('object_name', () => {
  return Promise.resolve(object_value);
});
```

> There are two <code>object names</code> which are reserved and cannot be used here:
>
> -   any ship id
> -   "segments"
>
> **IMPORTANT** internal caching of `ctx.ship` object is refreshed on `ship:update` notifications, if the connector doesn't subscribe for notification at all the cache won't be refreshed automatically. In such case disable caching, set short TTL or add `notifHandler`

#### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][1]** passed to node-cache-manager (optional, default `{}`)

#### Examples

```javascript
const redisStore = require("cache-manager-redis-store");
const { Cache } = require("hull/lib/infra");

const cache = new Cache({
  store: redisStore,
  url: 'redis://:XXXX@localhost:6379/0?ttl=600'
});

const connector = new Hull.Connector({ cache });
```

### InstrumentationAgent

It automatically sends data to DataDog, Sentry and Newrelic if appropriate ENV VARS are set:

-   NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY
-   DATADOG_API_KEY
-   SENTRY_URL

It also exposes the `contextMiddleware` which adds `req.hull.metric` agent to add custom metrics to the ship. Right now it doesn't take any custom options, but it's showed here for the sake of completeness.

#### Parameters

-   `options`   (optional, default `{}`)

#### Examples

```javascript
const { Instrumentation } = require("hull/lib/infra");

const instrumentation = new Instrumentation();

const connector = new Connector.App({ instrumentation });
```

### QueueAgent

By default it's initiated inside `Hull.Connector` as a very simplistic in-memory queue, but in case of production grade needs, it comes with a [Kue][13] or [Bull][14] adapters which you can initiate in a following way:

`Options` from the constructor of the `BullAdapter` or `KueAdapter` are passed directly to the internal init method and can be set with following parameters:

[https://github.com/Automattic/kue#redis-connection-settings][15] [https://github.com/OptimalBits/bull/blob/master/REFERENCE.md#queue][16]

The `queue` instance has a `contextMiddleware` method which adds `req.hull.enqueue` method to queue jobs - this is done automatically by `Hull.Connector().setupApp(app)`:

```javascript
req.hull.enqueue((jobName = ''), (jobPayload = {}), (options = {}));
```

By default the job will be retried 3 times and the payload would be removed from queue after successfull completion.

Then the handlers to work on a specific jobs is defined in following way:

```javascript
connector.worker({
  jobsName: (ctx, jobPayload) => {
    // process Payload
    // this === job (kue job object)
    // return Promise
  }
});
connector.startWorker();
```

#### Parameters

-   `adapter` **[Object][1]** 

#### Examples

````javascript
```javascript
const { Queue } = require("hull/lib/infra");
const BullAdapter = require("hull/lib/infra/queue/adapter/bull"); // or KueAdapter

const queueAdapter = new BullAdapter(options);
const queue = new Queue(queueAdapter);

const connector = new Hull.Connector({ queue });
```
````

**Meta**

-   **deprecated**: internal connector queue is considered an antipattern, this class is kept only for backward compatiblity


## Utils

General utilities

### OAuthHandler

OAuthHandler is a packaged authentication handler using [Passport][17]. You give it the right parameters, it handles the entire auth scenario for you.

It exposes hooks to check if the ship is Set up correctly, inject additional parameters during login, and save the returned settings during callback.

To make it working in Hull dashboard set following line in **manifest.json** file:

```json
{
  "admin": "/auth/"
}
```

For example of the notifications payload [see details][18]

#### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][1]** 
    -   `options.name` **[string][2]** The name displayed to the User in the various screens.
    -   `options.tokenInUrl` **[boolean][4]** Some services (like Stripe) require an exact URL match. Some others (like Hubspot) don't pass the state back on the other hand. Setting this flag to false (default: true) removes the `token` Querystring parameter in the URL to only rely on the `state` param.
    -   `options.isSetup` **[Function][8]** A method returning a Promise, resolved if the ship is correctly setup, or rejected if it needs to display the Login screen.
        Lets you define in the Ship the name of the parameters you need to check for. You can return parameters in the Promise resolve and reject methods, that will be passed to the view. This lets you display status and show buttons and more to the customer
    -   `options.onAuthorize` **[Function][8]** A method returning a Promise, resolved when complete. Best used to save tokens and continue the sequence once saved.
    -   `options.onLogin` **[Function][8]** A method returning a Promise, resolved when ready. Best used to process form parameters, and place them in `req.authParams` to be submitted to the Login sequence. Useful to add strategy-specific parameters, such as a portal ID for Hubspot for instance.
    -   `options.Strategy` **[Function][8]** A Passport Strategy.
    -   `options.views` **[Object][1]** Required, A hash of view files for the different screens: login, home, failure, success
    -   `options.options` **[Object][1]** Hash passed to Passport to configure the OAuth Strategy. (See [Passport OAuth Configuration][19])

#### Examples

```javascript
const { OAuthHandler } = require("hull/lib/utils");
const { Strategy as HubspotStrategy } = require("passport-hubspot");

const app = express();

app.use(
  '/auth',
  OAuthHandler({
    name: 'Hubspot',
    tokenInUrl: true,
    Strategy: HubspotStrategy,
    options: {
      clientID: 'xxxxxxxxx',
      clientSecret: 'xxxxxxxxx', //Client Secret
      scope: ['offline', 'contacts-rw', 'events-rw'] //App Scope
    },
    isSetup(req) {
      if (!!req.query.reset) return Promise.reject();
      const { token } = req.hull.ship.private_settings || {};
      return !!token
      ? Promise.resolve({ valid: true, total: 2 })
      : Promise.reject({ valid: false, total: 0 });
    },
    onLogin: req => {
      req.authParams = { ...req.body, ...req.query };
      return req.hull.client.updateSettings({
        portalId: req.authParams.portalId
      });
    },
    onAuthorize: req => {
      const { refreshToken, accessToken } = req.account || {};
      return req.hull.client.updateSettings({
        refresh_token: refreshToken,
        token: accessToken
      });
    },
    views: {
      login: 'login.html',
      home: 'home.html',
      failure: 'failure.html',
      success: 'success.html'
    }
  })
);

//each view will receive the following data:
{
  name: "The name passed as handler",
  urls: {
    login: '/auth/login',
    success: '/auth/success',
    failure: '/auth/failure',
    home: '/auth/home',
  },
  ship: ship //The entire Ship instance's config
}
```

Returns **[Function][8]** OAuth handler to use with expressjs

### traits.group

The Hull API returns traits in a "flat" format, with '/' delimiters in the key.
This method can be used to group those traits into subobjects:

#### Parameters

-   `user` **[Object][1]** flat object

#### Examples

```javascript
hullClient.utils.traits.group({
  email: "romain@user",
  name: "name",
  "traits_coconut_name": "coconut",
  "traits_coconut_size": "large",
  "traits_cb/twitter_bio": "parisian",
  "traits_cb/twitter_name": "parisian",
  "traits_group/name": "groupname",
  "traits_zendesk/open_tickets": 18
});

// returns
{
  "email": "romain@user",
  "name": "name",
  "traits": {
    "coconut_name": "coconut",
    "coconut_size": "large"
  },
  "cb": {
    "twitter_bio": "parisian",
    "twitter_name": "parisian"
  },
  "group": {
    "name": "groupname"
  },
  "zendesk": {
    "open_tickets": 18
  }
};
```

Returns **[Object][1]** nested object

### settings.update

Updates `private_settings` merging them with existing ones before.

Note: this method will trigger `hullClient.put` and will result in `ship:update` notify event coming from Hull platform - possible loop condition.

#### Parameters

-   `newSettings` **[Object][1]** settings to update

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

### properties.get

Fetches and returns all existing properties in the organization along with their metadata

Returns **[Promise][9]&lt;[Object][1]>** 

### requestExtract

This is a method to request an extract of user base to be sent back to the Connector to a selected `path` which should be handled by `notifHandler`.

#### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][1]** ={}
    -   `options.client` **[Object][1]** 
    -   `options.hostname` **[string][2]** 
    -   `options.segment` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `null`)
    -   `options.format` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `json`)
    -   `options.path` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `/batch`)
    -   `options.fields` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `[]`)
    -   `options.additionalQuery` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)

#### Examples

```javascript
req.hull.helpers.requestExtract({ segment = null, path, fields = [], additionalQuery = {} });
```

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

### handleExtract

Helper function to handle JSON extract sent to batch endpoint

#### Parameters

-   `ctx` **[Object][1]** Hull request context
-   `options` **[Object][1]** 
    -   `options.body` **[Object][1]** request body object (req.body)
    -   `options.batchSize` **[Object][1]** size of the chunk we want to pass to handler
    -   `options.callback` **[Function][8]** callback returning a Promise (will be called with array of elements)
    -   `options.onResponse` **[Function][8]** callback called on successful inital response
    -   `options.onError` **[Function][8]** callback called during error

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

### updateSettings

Allows to update selected settings of the ship `private_settings` object. This is a wrapper over `hullClient.utils.settings.update()` call. On top of that it makes sure that the current context ship object is updated, and the ship cache is refreshed.
It will emit `ship:update` notify event.

#### Parameters

-   `ctx` **[Object][1]** The Context Object
-   `newSettings` **[Object][1]** settings to update

#### Examples

```javascript
req.hull.helpers.updateSettings({ newSettings });
```

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

### superagentErrorPlugin

This is a general error handling SuperAgent plugin.

It changes default superagent retry strategy to rerun the query only on transient
connectivity issues (`ECONNRESET`, `ETIMEDOUT`, `EADDRINFO`, `ESOCKETTIMEDOUT`, `ECONNABORTED`).
So any of those errors will be retried according to retries option (defaults to 2).

If the retry fails again due to any of those errors the SuperAgent Promise will
be rejected with special error class TransientError to distinguish between logical errors
and flaky connection issues.

In case of any other request the plugin applies simple error handling strategy:
every non 2xx or 3xx response is treated as an error and the promise will be rejected.
Every connector ServiceClient should apply it's own error handling strategy by overriding `ok` handler.

#### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `options.retries` **[Number][3]?** Number of retries
    -   `options.timeout` **[Number][3]?** Timeout for request

#### Examples

```javascript
superagent.get("http://test/test")
  .use(superagentErrorPlugin())
  .ok((res) => {
    if (res.status === 401) {
      throw new ConfigurationError();
    }
    if (res.status === 429) {
      throw new RateLimitError();
    }
    return true;
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    // error.constructor.name can be ConfigurationError, RateLimitError coming from `ok` handler above
    // or TransientError coming from logic applied by `superagentErrorPlugin`
  })
```

Returns **[Function][8]** function to use as superagent plugin

### superagentInstrumentationPlugin

This plugin takes `client.logger` and `metric` params from the `Context Object` and logs following log line:

-   `ship.service_api.request` with params:
    -   `url` - the original url passed to agent (use with `superagentUrlTemplatePlugin`)
    -   `responseTime` - full response time in ms
    -   `method` - HTTP verb
    -   `status` - response status code
    -   `vars` - when using `superagentUrlTemplatePlugin` it will contain all provided variables

The plugin also issue a metric with the same name `ship.service_api.request`.

#### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][1]** 
    -   `options.logger` **[Object][1]** Logger from HullClient
    -   `options.metric` **[Object][1]** Metric from Hull.Connector

#### Examples

````javascript
const superagent = require('superagent');
const { superagentInstrumentationPlugin } = require('hull/lib/utils');

// const ctx is a Context Object here

const agent = superagent
.agent()
.use(
  urlTemplatePlugin({
    defaultVariable: 'mainVariable'
  })
)
.use(
  superagentInstrumentationPlugin({
    logger: ctx.client.logger,
    metric: ctx.metric
  })
);

agent
.get('https://api.url/{{defaultVariable}}/resource/{{resourceId}}')
.tmplVar({
  resourceId: 123
})
.then(res => {
  assert(res.request.url === 'https://api.url/mainVariable/resource/123');
});

> Above code will produce following log line:
```sh
connector.service_api.call {
  responseTime: 880.502444,
  method: 'GET',
  url: 'https://api.url/{{defaultVariable}}/resource/{{resourceId}}',
  status: 200
}
```

> and following metrics:

```javascript
- `ship.service_api.call` - should be migrated to `connector.service_api.call`
- `connector.service_api.responseTime`
```
````

Returns **[Function][8]** function to use as superagent plugin

### superagentUrlTemplatePlugin

This plugin allows to pass generic url with variables - this allows better instrumentation and logging on the same REST API endpoint when resource ids varies.

#### Parameters

-   `defaults` **[Object][1]** default template variable

#### Examples

```javascript
const superagent = require('superagent');
const { superagentUrlTemplatePlugin } = require('hull/lib/utils');

const agent = superagent.agent().use(
  urlTemplatePlugin({
    defaultVariable: 'mainVariable'
  })
);

agent
.get('https://api.url/{{defaultVariable}}/resource/{{resourceId}}')
.tmplVar({
  resourceId: 123
})
.then(res => {
  assert(res.request.url === 'https://api.url/mainVariable/resource/123');
});
```

Returns **[Function][8]** function to use as superagent plugin

## Utils

The following methods are helper utilities. They are available under `utils` property

### OAuthHandler

OAuthHandler is a packaged authentication handler using [Passport][17]. You give it the right parameters, it handles the entire auth scenario for you.

It exposes hooks to check if the ship is Set up correctly, inject additional parameters during login, and save the returned settings during callback.

To make it working in Hull dashboard set following line in **manifest.json** file:

```json
{
  "admin": "/auth/"
}
```

For example of the notifications payload [see details][18]

#### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][1]** 
    -   `options.name` **[string][2]** The name displayed to the User in the various screens.
    -   `options.tokenInUrl` **[boolean][4]** Some services (like Stripe) require an exact URL match. Some others (like Hubspot) don't pass the state back on the other hand. Setting this flag to false (default: true) removes the `token` Querystring parameter in the URL to only rely on the `state` param.
    -   `options.isSetup` **[Function][8]** A method returning a Promise, resolved if the ship is correctly setup, or rejected if it needs to display the Login screen.
        Lets you define in the Ship the name of the parameters you need to check for. You can return parameters in the Promise resolve and reject methods, that will be passed to the view. This lets you display status and show buttons and more to the customer
    -   `options.onAuthorize` **[Function][8]** A method returning a Promise, resolved when complete. Best used to save tokens and continue the sequence once saved.
    -   `options.onLogin` **[Function][8]** A method returning a Promise, resolved when ready. Best used to process form parameters, and place them in `req.authParams` to be submitted to the Login sequence. Useful to add strategy-specific parameters, such as a portal ID for Hubspot for instance.
    -   `options.Strategy` **[Function][8]** A Passport Strategy.
    -   `options.views` **[Object][1]** Required, A hash of view files for the different screens: login, home, failure, success
    -   `options.options` **[Object][1]** Hash passed to Passport to configure the OAuth Strategy. (See [Passport OAuth Configuration][19])

#### Examples

```javascript
const { OAuthHandler } = require("hull/lib/utils");
const { Strategy as HubspotStrategy } = require("passport-hubspot");

const app = express();

app.use(
  '/auth',
  OAuthHandler({
    name: 'Hubspot',
    tokenInUrl: true,
    Strategy: HubspotStrategy,
    options: {
      clientID: 'xxxxxxxxx',
      clientSecret: 'xxxxxxxxx', //Client Secret
      scope: ['offline', 'contacts-rw', 'events-rw'] //App Scope
    },
    isSetup(req) {
      if (!!req.query.reset) return Promise.reject();
      const { token } = req.hull.ship.private_settings || {};
      return !!token
      ? Promise.resolve({ valid: true, total: 2 })
      : Promise.reject({ valid: false, total: 0 });
    },
    onLogin: req => {
      req.authParams = { ...req.body, ...req.query };
      return req.hull.client.updateSettings({
        portalId: req.authParams.portalId
      });
    },
    onAuthorize: req => {
      const { refreshToken, accessToken } = req.account || {};
      return req.hull.client.updateSettings({
        refresh_token: refreshToken,
        token: accessToken
      });
    },
    views: {
      login: 'login.html',
      home: 'home.html',
      failure: 'failure.html',
      success: 'success.html'
    }
  })
);

//each view will receive the following data:
{
  name: "The name passed as handler",
  urls: {
    login: '/auth/login',
    success: '/auth/success',
    failure: '/auth/failure',
    home: '/auth/home',
  },
  ship: ship //The entire Ship instance's config
}
```

Returns **[Function][8]** OAuth handler to use with expressjs

### traits.group

The Hull API returns traits in a "flat" format, with '/' delimiters in the key.
This method can be used to group those traits into subobjects:

#### Parameters

-   `user` **[Object][1]** flat object

#### Examples

```javascript
hullClient.utils.traits.group({
  email: "romain@user",
  name: "name",
  "traits_coconut_name": "coconut",
  "traits_coconut_size": "large",
  "traits_cb/twitter_bio": "parisian",
  "traits_cb/twitter_name": "parisian",
  "traits_group/name": "groupname",
  "traits_zendesk/open_tickets": 18
});

// returns
{
  "email": "romain@user",
  "name": "name",
  "traits": {
    "coconut_name": "coconut",
    "coconut_size": "large"
  },
  "cb": {
    "twitter_bio": "parisian",
    "twitter_name": "parisian"
  },
  "group": {
    "name": "groupname"
  },
  "zendesk": {
    "open_tickets": 18
  }
};
```

Returns **[Object][1]** nested object

### settings.update

Updates `private_settings` merging them with existing ones before.

Note: this method will trigger `hullClient.put` and will result in `ship:update` notify event coming from Hull platform - possible loop condition.

#### Parameters

-   `newSettings` **[Object][1]** settings to update

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

### properties.get

Fetches and returns all existing properties in the organization along with their metadata

Returns **[Promise][9]&lt;[Object][1]>** 

### requestExtract

This is a method to request an extract of user base to be sent back to the Connector to a selected `path` which should be handled by `notifHandler`.

#### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][1]** ={}
    -   `options.client` **[Object][1]** 
    -   `options.hostname` **[string][2]** 
    -   `options.segment` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `null`)
    -   `options.format` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `json`)
    -   `options.path` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `/batch`)
    -   `options.fields` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `[]`)
    -   `options.additionalQuery` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)

#### Examples

```javascript
req.hull.helpers.requestExtract({ segment = null, path, fields = [], additionalQuery = {} });
```

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

### handleExtract

Helper function to handle JSON extract sent to batch endpoint

#### Parameters

-   `ctx` **[Object][1]** Hull request context
-   `options` **[Object][1]** 
    -   `options.body` **[Object][1]** request body object (req.body)
    -   `options.batchSize` **[Object][1]** size of the chunk we want to pass to handler
    -   `options.callback` **[Function][8]** callback returning a Promise (will be called with array of elements)
    -   `options.onResponse` **[Function][8]** callback called on successful inital response
    -   `options.onError` **[Function][8]** callback called during error

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

### updateSettings

Allows to update selected settings of the ship `private_settings` object. This is a wrapper over `hullClient.utils.settings.update()` call. On top of that it makes sure that the current context ship object is updated, and the ship cache is refreshed.
It will emit `ship:update` notify event.

#### Parameters

-   `ctx` **[Object][1]** The Context Object
-   `newSettings` **[Object][1]** settings to update

#### Examples

```javascript
req.hull.helpers.updateSettings({ newSettings });
```

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

### superagentErrorPlugin

This is a general error handling SuperAgent plugin.

It changes default superagent retry strategy to rerun the query only on transient
connectivity issues (`ECONNRESET`, `ETIMEDOUT`, `EADDRINFO`, `ESOCKETTIMEDOUT`, `ECONNABORTED`).
So any of those errors will be retried according to retries option (defaults to 2).

If the retry fails again due to any of those errors the SuperAgent Promise will
be rejected with special error class TransientError to distinguish between logical errors
and flaky connection issues.

In case of any other request the plugin applies simple error handling strategy:
every non 2xx or 3xx response is treated as an error and the promise will be rejected.
Every connector ServiceClient should apply it's own error handling strategy by overriding `ok` handler.

#### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `options.retries` **[Number][3]?** Number of retries
    -   `options.timeout` **[Number][3]?** Timeout for request

#### Examples

```javascript
superagent.get("http://test/test")
  .use(superagentErrorPlugin())
  .ok((res) => {
    if (res.status === 401) {
      throw new ConfigurationError();
    }
    if (res.status === 429) {
      throw new RateLimitError();
    }
    return true;
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    // error.constructor.name can be ConfigurationError, RateLimitError coming from `ok` handler above
    // or TransientError coming from logic applied by `superagentErrorPlugin`
  })
```

Returns **[Function][8]** function to use as superagent plugin

### superagentInstrumentationPlugin

This plugin takes `client.logger` and `metric` params from the `Context Object` and logs following log line:

-   `ship.service_api.request` with params:
    -   `url` - the original url passed to agent (use with `superagentUrlTemplatePlugin`)
    -   `responseTime` - full response time in ms
    -   `method` - HTTP verb
    -   `status` - response status code
    -   `vars` - when using `superagentUrlTemplatePlugin` it will contain all provided variables

The plugin also issue a metric with the same name `ship.service_api.request`.

#### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][1]** 
    -   `options.logger` **[Object][1]** Logger from HullClient
    -   `options.metric` **[Object][1]** Metric from Hull.Connector

#### Examples

````javascript
const superagent = require('superagent');
const { superagentInstrumentationPlugin } = require('hull/lib/utils');

// const ctx is a Context Object here

const agent = superagent
.agent()
.use(
  urlTemplatePlugin({
    defaultVariable: 'mainVariable'
  })
)
.use(
  superagentInstrumentationPlugin({
    logger: ctx.client.logger,
    metric: ctx.metric
  })
);

agent
.get('https://api.url/{{defaultVariable}}/resource/{{resourceId}}')
.tmplVar({
  resourceId: 123
})
.then(res => {
  assert(res.request.url === 'https://api.url/mainVariable/resource/123');
});

> Above code will produce following log line:
```sh
connector.service_api.call {
  responseTime: 880.502444,
  method: 'GET',
  url: 'https://api.url/{{defaultVariable}}/resource/{{resourceId}}',
  status: 200
}
```

> and following metrics:

```javascript
- `ship.service_api.call` - should be migrated to `connector.service_api.call`
- `connector.service_api.responseTime`
```
````

Returns **[Function][8]** function to use as superagent plugin

### superagentUrlTemplatePlugin

This plugin allows to pass generic url with variables - this allows better instrumentation and logging on the same REST API endpoint when resource ids varies.

#### Parameters

-   `defaults` **[Object][1]** default template variable

#### Examples

```javascript
const superagent = require('superagent');
const { superagentUrlTemplatePlugin } = require('hull/lib/utils');

const agent = superagent.agent().use(
  urlTemplatePlugin({
    defaultVariable: 'mainVariable'
  })
);

agent
.get('https://api.url/{{defaultVariable}}/resource/{{resourceId}}')
.tmplVar({
  resourceId: 123
})
.then(res => {
  assert(res.request.url === 'https://api.url/mainVariable/resource/123');
});
```

Returns **[Function][8]** function to use as superagent plugin

## Errors

General utilities

### ConfigurationError

**Extends TransientError**

This is an error related to wrong connector configuration.
It's a transient error, but it makes sense to retry the payload only after the connector settings update.

#### Parameters

-   `message` **[string][2]** 
-   `extra` **[Object][1]** 

### LogicError

**Extends Error**

This is an error which should be handled by the connector implementation itself.

Rejecting or throwing this error without try/catch block will be treated as unhandled error.

#### Parameters

-   `message` **[string][2]** 
-   `action` **[string][2]** 
-   `payload` **any** 

#### Examples

```javascript
function validationFunction() {
  throw new LogicError("Validation error", { action: "validation", payload: });
}
```

### RateLimitError

**Extends TransientError**

This is a subclass of TransientError.
It have similar nature but it's very common during connector operations so it's treated in a separate class.
Usually connector is able to tell more about when exactly the rate limit error will be gone to optimize retry strategy.

#### Parameters

-   `message` **[string][2]** 
-   `extra` **[Object][1]** 

### RecoverableError

**Extends TransientError**

This error means that 3rd party API resources is out of sync comparing to Hull organization state.
For example customer by accident removed a resource which we use to express segment information (for example user tags, user sub lists etc.)
So this is a TransientError which could be retried after forcing "reconciliation" operation (which should recreate missing resource)

#### Parameters

-   `message` **[string][2]** 
-   `extra` **[Object][1]** 

### TransientError

**Extends Error**

This is a transient error related to either connectivity issues or temporary 3rd party API unavailability.

When using `superagentErrorPlugin` it's returned by some errors out-of-the-box.

#### Parameters

-   `message` **[string][2]** 
-   `extra` **[Object][1]** 

## HullClient

HullClient instance constructor - creates new instance to perform API calls, issue traits/track calls and log information

### Parameters

-   `config` **[Object][1]** configuration object
    -   `config.id` **[string][2]** Connector ID - required
    -   `config.secret` **[string][2]** Connector Secret - required
    -   `config.organization` **[string][2]** Hull organization - required
    -   `config.requestId` **[string][2]?** additional parameter which will be added to logs context, it can be HTTP request unique id when you init HullClient and you want to group log lines by the request (it can be a job id etc.)
    -   `config.connectorName` **[string][2]?** additional parameter which will be added to logs context, it's used to track connector name in logs
    -   `config.captureLogs` **[boolean][4]?** an optional param to enable capturing logs, when enabled logs won't be sent to stdout/stderr and `logs` array would be initiated, which you can access via hullClient.configuration().logs
    -   `config.captureFirehoseEvents` **[boolean][4]?** an option param to enable capturing firehose events, when enabled firehose events won't be sent to firehose endpoint and `firehoseEvents` array woyld be initiated, which you can access via hullClient.configuration().firehoseEvents
    -   `config.firehoseUrl` **[string][2]?** The url track/traits calls should be sent, available only for testing purposes
    -   `config.protocol` **[string][2]** protocol which will be appended to organization url, override for testing only (optional, default `https`)
    -   `config.prefix` **[string][2]** prefix of Hull REST API, override for testing only (optional, default `/api/v1`)
    -   `config.logs` **[Array][5]?** an optional array to capture all logs entries, you can provide your own array or use `captureLogs` to initiate empty one
    -   `config.firehoseEvents` **[Array][5]?** an optional array to capture all firehose events, you can provide your own array or use `captureFirehoseEvents` to initiate empty one

### Examples

```javascript
const HullClient = require("hull-client");
const hullClient = new HullClient({
  id: "HULL_ID",
  secret: "HULL_SECRET",
  organization: "HULL_ORGANIZATION_DOMAIN"
});
```

### configuration

Returns the global configuration object.

#### Examples

```javascript
const hullClient = new HullClient({});
hullClient.configuration() == {
  prefix: "/api/v1",
  domain: "hullapp.io",
  protocol: "https",
  id: "58765f7de3aa14001999",
  secret: "12347asc855041674dc961af50fc1",
  organization: "fa4321.hullapp.io",
  version: "0.13.10"
};
```

Returns **[Object][1]** current `HullClient` configuration parameters

### asUser

Takes User Claims (link to User Identity docs) and returnes `HullClient` instance scoped to this User.
This makes [#traits][20] and [#track][21] methods available.

#### Parameters

-   `userClaim` **[Object][1]** 
-   `additionalClaims` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `additionalClaims.create` **[boolean][4]** marks if the user should be lazily created if not found (optional, default `true`)
    -   `additionalClaims.scopes` **[Array][5]** adds scopes claim to the JWT to impersonate a User with admin rights (optional, default `[]`)
    -   `additionalClaims.active` **[string][2]** marks the user as _active_ meaning a reduced latency at the expense of scalability. Don't use for high volume updates (optional, default `false`)


-   Throws **[Error][22]** if no valid claims are passed

Returns **[UserScopedHullClient][23]** 

### asAccount

Takes Account Claims (link to User Identity docs) and returnes `HullClient` instance scoped to this Account.
This makes [#traits][20] method available.

#### Parameters

-   `accountClaim` **[Object][1]** 
-   `additionalClaims` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `Object.freeze({})`)


-   Throws **[Error][22]** If no valid claims are passed

Returns **[AccountScopedHullClient][24]** instance scoped to account claims

## Api

Following methods allows to perform api calls against Hull REST API.
Their are available on base `HullClient` and all scoped classes.

### api

Performs a HTTP request on selected url of Hull REST API (prefixed with `prefix` param of the constructor)

#### Parameters

-   `url` **[string][2]** 
-   `method` **[string][2]** 
-   `params` **[Object][1]?** 
-   `options` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `options.timeout` **[Number][3]?** option controls if the client should retry the request if the client timeout error happens or if there is an error 503 returned serverside - the value of the option is applied for client side error
    -   `options.retry` **[Number][3]?** controls the time between timeout or 503 error occurence and the next retry being done

### get

Performs a GET HTTP request on selected url of Hull REST API (prefixed with `prefix` param of the constructor)

#### Parameters

-   `url` **[string][2]** 
-   `params` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
-   `options` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `options.timeout` **[Number][3]?** option controls if the client should retry the request if the client timeout error happens or if there is an error 503 returned serverside - the value of the option is applied for client side error
    -   `options.retry` **[Number][3]?** controls the time between timeout or 503 error occurence and the next retry being done

### post

Performs a POST HTTP request on selected url of Hull REST API (prefixed with `prefix` param of the constructor

#### Parameters

-   `url` **[string][2]** 
-   `params` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
-   `options` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `options.timeout` **[Number][3]?** option controls if the client should retry the request if the client timeout error happens or if there is an error 503 returned serverside - the value of the option is applied for client side error
    -   `options.retry` **[Number][3]?** controls the time between timeout or 503 error occurence and the next retry being done

### del

Performs a DELETE HTTP request on selected url of Hull REST API (prefixed with `prefix` param of the constructor)

#### Parameters

-   `url` **[string][2]** 
-   `params` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
-   `options` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `options.timeout` **[Number][3]?** option controls if the client should retry the request if the client timeout error happens or if there is an error 503 returned serverside - the value of the option is applied for client side error
    -   `options.retry` **[Number][3]?** controls the time between timeout or 503 error occurence and the next retry being done

### put

Performs a PUT HTTP request on selected url of Hull REST API (prefixed with `prefix` param of the constructor)

#### Parameters

-   `url` **[string][2]** 
-   `params` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
-   `options` **[Object][1]**  (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `options.timeout` **[Number][3]?** option controls if the client should retry the request if the client timeout error happens or if there is an error 503 returned serverside - the value of the option is applied for client side error
    -   `options.retry` **[Number][3]?** controls the time between timeout or 503 error occurence and the next retry being done

## EntityScopedHullClient

**Extends HullClient**

The following methods are available when `HullClient` instance is scoped to an user or an account.
How to get scoped client? Use `asUser` or `asAccount` methods.
The `EntityScopedHullClient` is never directly returned by the HullClient but is a base class for UserScopedHullClient and AccountScopedHullClient classes.

### Examples

```javascript
const hullClient = new HullClient({ id, secret, organization });
const scopedHullClient = hullClient.asUser({ email: "foo@bar.com "});
scopedHullClient.traits({ new_attribute: "new_value" });
```

### token

Used for [Bring your own users][25].
Creates a signed string for the user passed in hash. `userHash` needs an `email` field.
[You can then pass this client-side to Hull.js][26] to authenticate users client-side and cross-domain

#### Parameters

-   `claims` **[Object][1]** additionalClaims

#### Examples

```javascript
hullClient.asUser({ email: "xxx@example.com", external_id: "1234" }).token(optionalClaims);
hullClient.asAccount({ domain: "example.com", external_id: "1234" }).token(optionalClaims);
```

Returns **[string][2]** token

### traits

Saves attributes on the user or account. Only available on User or Account scoped `HullClient` instance (see [#asuser][27] and [#asaccount][28]).

#### Parameters

-   `traits` **[Object][1]** object with new attributes, it's always flat object, without nested subobjects

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

## UserScopedHullClient

**Extends EntityScopedHullClient**

The following methods are available when `HullClient` instance is scoped to an user only
How to get scoped client? Use `asUser` method

### Examples

```javascript
const hullClient = new HullClient({ id, secret, organization });
const scopedHullClient = hullClient.asUser({ email: "foo@bar.com "});
scopedHullClient.traits({ new_attribute: "new_value" });
```

### account

Available only for User scoped `HullClient` instance (see [#asuser][27]).
Returns `HullClient` instance scoped to both User and Account, but all traits/track call would be performed on the User, who will be also linked to the Account.

#### Parameters

-   `accountClaim` **[Object][1]** [description] (optional, default `Object.freeze({})`)

Returns **[HullClient][29]** HullClient scoped to a User and linked to an Account

### alias

Issues an `alias` event on user?

#### Parameters

-   `body` **[Object][1]** 

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

### track

Stores events on user. Only available on User scoped `HullClient` instance (see [#asuser][27]).

#### Parameters

-   `event` **[string][2]** event name
-   `properties` **[Object][1]** additional information about event, this is a one-level JSON object (optional, default `{}`)
-   `context` **[Object][1]** The `context` object lets you define event meta-data. Everything is optional (optional, default `{}`)
    -   `context.source` **[string][2]?** Defines a namespace, such as `zendesk`, `mailchimp`, `stripe`
    -   `context.type` **[string][2]?** Define a event type, such as `mail`, `ticket`, `payment`
    -   `context.created_at` **[string][2]?** Define an event date. defaults to `now()`
    -   `context.event_id` **[string][2]?** Define a way to de-duplicate events. If you pass events with the same unique `event_id`, they will overwrite the previous one.
    -   `context.ip` **[string][2]?** Define the Event's IP. Set to `null` if you're storing a server call, otherwise, geoIP will locate this event.
    -   `context.referer` **[string][2]?** Define the Referer. `null` for server calls.

Returns **[Promise][9]** 

## AccountScopedHullClient

**Extends EntityScopedHullClient**

This is a class returned when we scope client to account. It provides `token` and `traits` methods.

### Examples

```javascript
const hullClient = new HullClient({ id, secret, organization });
const scopedHullClient = hullClient.asAccount({ domain: "bar.com "});
scopedHullClient.traits({ new_attribute: "new_value" });
```

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[2]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[3]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[4]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[5]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[6]: #context

[7]: https://github.com/BryanDonovan/node-cache-manager#overview

[8]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[9]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise

[10]: #context

[11]: #hullconnector

[12]: https://github.com/BryanDonovan/node-cache-manager

[13]: https://github.com/Automattic/kue

[14]: https://github.com/OptimalBits/bull

[15]: https://github.com/Automattic/kue#redis-connection-settings

[16]: https://github.com/OptimalBits/bull/blob/master/REFERENCE.md#queue

[17]: http://passportjs.org/

[18]: ./notifications.md

[19]: http://passportjs.org/docs/oauth

[20]: #traits

[21]: #track

[22]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error

[23]: #userscopedhullclient

[24]: #accountscopedhullclient

[25]: http://hull.io/docs/users/byou

[26]: http://www.hull.io/docs/users/byou

[27]: #asuser

[28]: #asaccount

[29]: #hullclient
